---
source: ASPECTS_EXCHANGES
chapter: 1
language: en
---

SATURN'S SPECIAL ASPECTS (3rd, 7th, and 10th from Saturn)

Saturn aspects the 3rd, 7th, and 10th houses from its natal position in addition to its standard 7th-house opposition aspect. These extended drishti (aspects) carry Saturn's cold, disciplinary, delay-inducing energy to those house domains.

Saturn's 3rd House Aspect — Effect on Each Target House

Saturn aspecting the 1st house (Saturn in the 11th): Saturn's 3rd aspect on the lagna gradually disciplines the physical constitution, instilling restraint, stoicism, and a serious demeanour. Health issues related to cold and chronic conditions may emerge, but the native is typically long-lived. Personal ambition is moderated by a realistic, pragmatic assessment of life.

Saturn aspecting the 2nd house (Saturn in the 12th): The 3rd aspect of Saturn on the 2nd house curbs financial accumulation and restricts family harmony. Speech tends toward austerity or coldness. Expenditures from the 12th house can consistently offset gains, though the native becomes frugal by necessity.

Saturn aspecting the 3rd house (Saturn in the 1st): Saturn from the lagna aspecting the 3rd house brings discipline to communication and effort. Younger siblings may carry karmic weight or face difficulties. Written and verbal expression is precise but cautious. Courage builds through persistent effort rather than natural confidence.

Saturn aspecting the 4th house (Saturn in the 2nd): Saturn's 3rd aspect on the 4th house applies restriction and delay to domestic happiness, property acquisition, and the mother's health. Home environments tend to be austere. Property purchase is possible but delayed. The mother may carry Saturn's burdens of responsibility and limitation.

Saturn aspecting the 5th house (Saturn in the 3rd): Saturn from the 3rd creates obstacles in education, delays with children, and a serious approach to creative expression. Intelligence is methodical and analytical rather than spontaneous. The first child may be delayed or carry significant responsibilities. Speculative ventures require extreme caution.

Saturn aspecting the 6th house (Saturn in the 4th): Saturn's 3rd aspect from the 4th on the 6th house is one of the more beneficial applications of Saturn's energy — it methodically destroys enemies and reduces the power of disease over time. The native gains the ability to manage opponents systematically, and health challenges are faced with discipline.

Saturn aspecting the 7th house (Saturn in the 5th): Saturn from the 5th applies its 3rd aspect to the 7th house of marriage and partnership. Marriage is commonly delayed. The partner may be older, more serious, or carry significant karmic weight. Business partnerships involve structured rather than spontaneous collaboration. The lesson is commitment through discipline rather than romantic idealism.

Saturn aspecting the 8th house (Saturn in the 6th): Saturn's 3rd aspect from the 6th on the 8th house is generally beneficial — it extends longevity by disciplining the karmic debts associated with the 8th house and systematically reduces the disruptive power of hidden enemies. This aspect contributes to Saturn's ability to confer long life.

Saturn aspecting the 9th house (Saturn in the 7th): Saturn from the 7th aspecting the 9th brings a serious, structured approach to religion, philosophy, and the father relationship. The father may be austere, absent, or burdened. Higher learning is pursued systematically and often later in life. Divine grace arrives through sustained devotional practice rather than spontaneous grace.

Saturn aspecting the 10th house (Saturn in the 8th): Saturn from the 8th applying its 3rd aspect to the 10th house creates career challenges related to the 8th house's disruptive themes — sudden reversals, hidden obstacles, or career paths involving transformation industries (medicine, mining, research). Success is possible but requires extraordinary persistence.

Saturn aspecting the 11th house (Saturn in the 9th): Saturn from the 9th aspecting the 11th delays the fulfilment of desires and restricts gains through large social networks. The native may be excluded from mainstream commercial networks or find that financial gains arrive only after sustained dharmic effort. Gains from foreign sources or after the age of 36 are more common.

Saturn aspecting the 12th house (Saturn in the 10th): Saturn in the 10th house aspecting the 12th with its 3rd drishti suggests that the career has a disciplined connection to 12th house themes — foreign service, hospital administration, or government work involving confinement or liberation. Public reputation may carry an austere or isolating quality.

---

SATURN'S 7th HOUSE ASPECT (Standard Opposition)

Saturn's 7th aspect is its standard opposition drishti. Saturn opposing the 1st from the 7th house restricts personal health and vitality over time. Saturn opposing the 4th from the 10th creates tension between career ambition and domestic peace. Saturn opposing the 7th from the 1st delays and restricts marriage, often requiring the native to demonstrate maturity before partnership is granted by karma.

---

SATURN'S 10th HOUSE ASPECT — Effect on Each Target House

Saturn aspecting the 1st house (Saturn in the 4th): Saturn's 10th aspect from the 4th on the lagna slowly disciplines personal health and identity through the weight of domestic responsibilities and maternal karma. The native assumes heavy family burdens early. Constitution is resilient but cold; emotional warmth takes time to develop.

Saturn aspecting the 2nd house (Saturn in the 5th): Saturn's 10th aspect from the 5th on the 2nd house burdens the accumulation of family wealth and restricts easy speech. Family finances may involve the education or care of children as a recurring expense. Speech is chosen carefully.

Saturn aspecting the 3rd house (Saturn in the 6th): Saturn from the 6th with its 10th aspect on the 3rd is generally productive — it disciplines communication, makes the native precise in writing and expression, and channels 6th-house adversarial energy into productive service through effort and skill.

Saturn aspecting the 4th house (Saturn in the 7th): Saturn's 10th aspect from the 7th on the 4th house creates delays in property acquisition and introduces emotional austerity into domestic life. The partner (7th house) may carry Saturn's qualities — older, serious, or heavily burdened — and these qualities permeate the home environment.

---

JUPITER'S SPECIAL ASPECTS (5th, 7th, and 9th from Jupiter)

Jupiter aspects the 5th, 7th, and 9th houses from its position in addition to standard rules. These three aspects are Jupiter's most characteristic expressions of grace, expansion, and dharmic protection.

Jupiter's 5th Aspect on the 1st House (Jupiter in the 9th)

Jupiter in the 9th house casting its 5th aspect on the 1st house (lagna) is one of the most protective configurations in Vedic astrology. The lagna receives Jupiter's direct blessing of intelligence, dharma, and divine protection. The native is characteristically optimistic, ethically grounded, and endowed with natural wisdom. Jupiter from the 9th directly sanctifies the body and personality with grace. This is also the classic configuration for a devoted spiritual aspirant.

Jupiter's 5th Aspect on the 4th House (Jupiter in the 12th)

Jupiter in the 12th aspecting the 4th brings a subtle but real blessing to domestic life — spiritual peace suffuses the home environment. The mother may have a spiritually or philosophically elevated character. The 4th house receives Jupiter's grace through the 12th house's veil of moksha and foreign lands, suggesting that domestic happiness may be found in spiritual retreat, foreign countries, or simple, contemplative living rather than conventional comfort.

Jupiter's 5th Aspect on the 7th House (Jupiter in the 3rd)

Jupiter in the 3rd house aspecting the 7th with its 5th drishti brings intelligence and optimism to marriage and business partnerships. The partner tends to be communicative, educated, and philosophically minded. The 7th house, ordinarily the domain of karmic negotiation and relationship lessons, is graced with Jupiter's generous energy, reducing the bitterness of any partnership conflicts and encouraging fair resolution.

Jupiter's 5th Aspect on the 10th House (Jupiter in the 6th)

Jupiter from the 6th aspecting the 10th with its 5th drishti brings an interesting karmic combination — Jupiter must transmit its wisdom through the adversarial, service-oriented 6th house to the career house. The native typically achieves professional distinction through service, health-related work, or by overcoming opposition. The career benefits from Jupiter's dharmic protection, but through the hard route of service and persistent effort rather than effortless elevation.

Jupiter's 7th Aspect (Standard Opposition)

Jupiter's 7th aspect is the standard opposition and is consistently expansive and protective wherever it falls. Jupiter opposing the 7th from the 1st protects marriage with wisdom and generosity. Jupiter opposing the 10th from the 4th elevates the career through domestic stability and emotional intelligence.

Jupiter's 9th Aspect on the 5th House (Jupiter in the 9th)

Jupiter in the 9th casting its 9th aspect back onto the 5th creates one of the most auspicious configurations for children, creative intelligence, and spiritual merit. The Dharma-Trikona (5th and 9th houses) is illuminated by Jupiter on both ends. Past-life merit activates. Children are blessed. Artistic and creative endeavours carry a divine quality. This is an exceptional placement for teachers, philosophers, and those engaged in creative-spiritual work.

Jupiter's 9th Aspect on the 9th House (Jupiter in the 1st)

Jupiter in the 1st house casting its 9th aspect on the 9th house (father, dharma, higher education) directly sanctifies the father relationship and the native's spiritual fortune. Jupiter from the lagna amplifying the 9th produces a life shaped by philosophy, blessed relationships with teachers and father, and the accumulation of divine grace that appears, from the outside, as extraordinary good fortune.

---

MARS SPECIAL ASPECTS (4th, 7th, and 8th from Mars)

Mars, beyond its 7th house standard opposition, also aspects the 4th and 8th houses from its position. These aspects carry Mars's fierce, competitive, and sometimes destructive energy to those domains.

Mars's Aspect on the 7th House — Marriage and Partnership

Mars aspecting the 7th house — whether from the 1st (Manglik conjunction), the 4th (Mars aspecting 7th with its 4th aspect), or directly from opposite positions — introduces marital friction, passion, and conflict into the partnership sphere. The 7th house receiving Mars's energy is charged with desire, competitiveness, and the risk of hostility. In a positive interpretation, Mars on the 7th produces a passionate and physically active marriage with a strong-willed partner. The negative expression includes verbal and physical conflict, premature dissolution of marriage, or the partner carrying the qualities of Mars — assertive, impulsive, and occasionally aggressive. The classical texts identify this as Mangal Dosha (Mars affliction) when Mars sits in the 1st, 2nd, 4th, 7th, 8th, or 12th house, and its aspect on the 7th is one of the primary manifestations. Remediation includes Kuja Dosha analysis by both charts in synastry, and matching with another Manglik partner.

Mars's Aspect on the 4th House — Home and Domestic Environment

Mars aspecting the 4th house from the 1st or through its 4th-place aspect (e.g., Mars in the 1st aspecting the 4th) introduces conflict, restlessness, and disharmony into the domestic environment. The home may become a battlefield — literal or metaphorical — particularly during Mars dasha or transits. The mother may carry martial qualities or face health challenges related to Mars. Property disputes are a recurring theme. However, if Mars is a functional benefic for the lagna (such as for Cancer or Leo lagna), its aspect on the 4th can infuse the domestic sphere with energy, drive, and protective ferocity. Construction and renovation of property are also common expressions of this aspect.

Mars's Aspect on the 8th House — Longevity and Transformation

Mars aspecting the 8th house via its 8th-place aspect (Mars in the 1st aspecting the 8th) or direct placement introduces volatility into the domains of longevity, hidden wealth, occult knowledge, and karmic transformation. The 8th house governs the length of life, chronic disease, and sudden events — Mars here adds the risk of accidents, surgical interventions, and abrupt ruptures in the smooth flow of life. However, in its constructive mode, Mars aspecting the 8th can produce extraordinary courage in the face of death, surgical precision, forensic intelligence, and the capacity to wield hidden knowledge (including martial arts traditions, tantric disciplines, and military intelligence). Longevity is affected by the strength of the 8th lord and the overall vitality of the chart's ayus (lifespan) indicators.

---

RAHU/KETU AXIS PLACEMENTS BY HOUSE PAIR

Rahu in 1st / Ketu in 7th

Rahu in the 1st house intensely focuses the soul's desire-energy on self-development, physical identity, and the expression of an unconventional or foreign persona. The native is drawn to reinvent themselves, often multiple times, and may carry an unusual or magnetic physical presence. Ketu in the 7th house creates a profound past-life theme around partnership — the native has already mastered or over-relied on relationships in prior existences and is now being asked to develop independent selfhood. Marriages may feel karmic, incomplete, or spiritually demanding rather than conventionally satisfying. The partner may be spiritually evolved but detached, or there may be a recurring sense that close partnerships drain the sense of self the native is trying to construct. The life lesson is self-reliance without isolation.

---

Rahu in 2nd / Ketu in 8th

Rahu in the 2nd house creates intense desire for accumulated wealth, family status, and the pleasures of fine speech and sensory abundance. The native may accumulate dramatically through unconventional means — foreign income, technology, or resourcefulness with money. Ketu in the 8th house brings a background quality of disinterest in occult themes, hidden inheritance, or the extremes of transformation — paradoxically, Ketu here can produce past-life mastery of occult sciences that surfaces as natural intuitive facility in this life. The soul lesson involves using material accumulation as a vehicle for dharmic living rather than hoarding. There may be sudden gains and sudden losses as the Rahu-Ketu axis plays out its karmic corrections.

---

Rahu in 3rd / Ketu in 9th

Rahu in the 3rd house amplifies desire for communication, media, short travel, courage, and sibling relationships. The native may become an extraordinary communicator, writer, or media personality — especially in unconventional or cross-cultural domains. Ketu in the 9th brings a complex relationship with established religion, the father, and traditional philosophy. The native may have a past-life background in religious or philosophical authority but is now called to question received wisdom and forge their own dharmic path. Guru figures may disappoint, arrive late, or need to be sought outside conventional institutions. The lesson is finding the guru within after releasing dependency on external authority.

---

Rahu in 4th / Ketu in 10th

Rahu in the 4th house creates a powerful longing for domestic security, belonging, property, and the establishment of an emotional home — often through foreign or unconventional means (e.g., settling in a foreign country, building an unusual kind of home). Ketu in the 10th produces a background disinterest in conventional career status, though the native may have strong past-life career mastery. The soul lesson involves finding genuine inner peace (4th) rather than achieving worldly recognition (10th) as the source of contentment. Career accomplishments may arrive unexpectedly or feel hollow; domestic and inner life carry the real karmic weight.

---

Rahu in 5th / Ketu in 11th

Rahu in the 5th house generates intense desire for creative expression, recognition through intelligence, children, and romance. The native may be drawn to speculative investments, artistic creation, or the pursuit of romantic ideals with unusual intensity. Children may arrive through unconventional circumstances. Ketu in the 11th brings a quality of detachment toward large social networks and material gain — the native is not particularly driven by ordinary social ambitions, even if the outer life appears successful. The lesson involves developing genuine creative wisdom (5th) and not seeking it purely through social validation (11th). Past-life mastery of commercial networks is being released in favour of deeper creative authenticity.

---

Rahu in 6th / Ketu in 12th

Rahu in the 6th house creates powerful engagement with the themes of service, health work, legal contests, and the defeat of adversaries. The native may excel in medicine, law, military service, or competitive business through unusual intelligence and relentless effort. Rahu here drives an almost compulsive need to win in adversarial situations. Ketu in the 12th is often considered an auspicious placement — Ketu in the house of moksha and liberation suggests that past-life spiritual practice inclines the native toward eventual liberation, and that the native finds periods of solitude naturally restorative rather than frightening. The soul lesson involves courageous engagement with the world (6th) while maintaining access to the inner reservoir of silence (12th).

---

PARIVARTANA YOGA — QUICK REFERENCE BY LAGNA

For each lagna, the following Parivartana (mutual exchange) combinations between functional benefics and malefics produce distinctive effects. The first planet listed occupies the second planet's sign, and vice versa.

Aries Lagna — Mars (1st, 8th lord) exchanges with Jupiter (9th, 12th lord): An exchange between lagna lord Mars and dharma lord Jupiter creates a powerful Raj Yoga — self and fortune are in mutual service. The native is protected by dharma and acts with righteous courage.

Aries Lagna — Venus (2nd, 7th lord) exchanges with Mercury (3rd, 6th lord): A Dhana Yoga with mild complexity. Venus rules wealth and marriage; Mercury rules communication and service. Exchange produces commercial success through writing, negotiation, or media but with some marital complexity due to the 6th house involvement.

Taurus Lagna — Venus (1st, 6th lord) exchanges with Saturn (9th, 10th lord): An exceptional Raj Yoga for Taurus lagna. Venus and Saturn are natural friends. The lagna lord in the 9th or 10th and Saturn in the 1st or 6th creates a yoga of exceptional professional fortune and dharmic distinction in career.

Taurus Lagna — Mercury (2nd, 5th lord) exchanges with Venus (1st lord): Dhana Yoga between the 2nd and 5th lords through the lagna — wealth, intelligence, and creative talent combine powerfully. Periods of both planets produce financial and creative peaks.

Gemini Lagna — Mercury (1st, 4th lord) exchanges with Jupiter (7th, 10th lord): Mercury as lagna lord exchanging with Jupiter as 7th and 10th lord creates a Raj Yoga combining self, home, career, and marriage. The native achieves professional eminence through wisdom and partnership. Jupiter-Mercury exchange is particularly productive for communication-based careers.

Cancer Lagna — Moon (1st lord) exchanges with Jupiter (6th, 9th lord): Lagna lord Moon exchanging with Jupiter creates an interesting dynamic. The 9th house connection makes this a Raj Yoga with dharmic flavour; however, the 6th house connection introduces service or health themes. Ultimately auspicious due to Jupiter's natural beneficence.

Leo Lagna — Sun (1st lord) exchanges with Mars (4th, 9th lord): Sun and Mars are natural friends. This exchange produces powerful Dharma Raj Yoga — the native's identity (Sun) is grounded in dharma and property (Mars ruling 4th and 9th). Authority and dharmic fortune reinforce each other, producing natural leadership.

Virgo Lagna — Mercury (1st, 10th lord) exchanges with Venus (2nd, 9th lord): An outstanding exchange for Virgo lagna. Mercury and Venus together in exchange connect identity, career, wealth, and divine fortune. The native achieves career distinction and financial success in fields requiring both analytical precision and aesthetic refinement.

Libra Lagna — Venus (1st, 8th lord) exchanges with Saturn (4th, 5th lord): Saturn and Venus are natural friends, and their exchange for Libra lagna is a powerful Dhana and Raj Yoga. The 8th house connection introduces transformative themes but also hidden wealth. The native may achieve enduring prosperity through real estate, creative enterprise, and disciplined accumulation.

Scorpio Lagna — Mars (1st, 6th lord) exchanges with Saturn (3rd, 4th lord): Mars and Saturn are mutual enemies — this exchange is difficult. Competitive conflicts, domestic turbulence, and health challenges are more likely unless both planets are exceptionally strong. Dasha periods of both planets carry the tension of the exchange.

Sagittarius Lagna — Jupiter (1st, 4th lord) exchanges with Sun (9th lord): An extremely auspicious exchange. Jupiter and the Sun are natural friends. Lagna lord and 9th lord in exchange produce the highest form of Dharma Raj Yoga — the native is blessed with dharmic fortune, wisdom, and the visible grace of the divine.

Capricorn Lagna — Saturn (1st, 2nd lord) exchanges with Mercury (6th, 9th lord): Saturn and Mercury are natural friends. The exchange of lagna lord with the 9th lord creates a Raj Yoga through Dharma. The 6th house connection means the native achieves through service, discipline, and systematic overcoming of obstacles — but the 9th house ultimate fortune is genuine.

Aquarius Lagna — Saturn (1st, 12th lord) exchanges with Jupiter (2nd, 11th lord): Saturn and Jupiter in exchange for Aquarius lagna create a Dhana Yoga between accumulated assets (2nd) and gains (11th) with the lagna lord. This is a classic wealth yoga for this ascendant, producing financial accumulation through disciplined long-term effort and wise investment.

Pisces Lagna — Jupiter (1st, 10th lord) exchanges with Saturn (11th, 12th lord): Jupiter and Saturn exchanging for Pisces lagna activates a complex yoga. Career (10th) lord Jupiter in the 11th or 12th and Saturn in the 1st or 10th — the Pisces native's career and spiritual life are in constant negotiation with worldly gains and liberation. Deeply spiritual career vocations are common.

---

DOUBLE TRANSIT THEORY (Jupiter + Saturn)

The Double Transit Theory, associated primarily with B.V. Raman and elaborated by K.N. Rao, holds that any natal planet or house will deliver results most powerfully when both Jupiter and Saturn simultaneously transit over it by their respective positions. Since Jupiter and Saturn together represent the two great chronological timekeepers of Vedic astrology — Jupiter being the bestower of expansion and Saturn being the disciplinarian of karma — their simultaneous influence on a natal position triggers events of lasting significance in that domain.

The fundamental principle is: an event occurs, or is most fully actualised, when (a) the natal dasha-antardasha activates the relevant house or planet, AND (b) transiting Jupiter and Saturn simultaneously aspect or conjoin that natal position.

For example, if the natal 7th house is activated by a marriage-related dasha period (Venus, Jupiter, or the 7th lord dasha), marriage is most likely to occur when transit Jupiter and transit Saturn are both simultaneously influencing the natal 7th house, the natal 7th lord, or the natal Venus. A single transit from Jupiter alone may indicate a favourable period; Saturn alone may indicate a testing period; but their combined simultaneous influence crystallises the event.

Key natal points for double transit analysis include the natal Moon (general timing of events in life), the natal Sun (career and health events), the lagna (identity-changing events), and the lords of major life houses. When Jupiter and Saturn are both conjunct the natal Moon simultaneously, major life events of long-lasting consequence occur. When double transit falls on the 10th house, career transformations are crystallised. When double transit falls on the 7th house lord or Venus, relationship and marriage events are precipitated.

The theory also accounts for the negative: when Jupiter and Saturn simultaneously transit the 8th house from the natal Moon or from the natal lagna, a period of accumulated karmic pressure — financial, health, or personal — may arrive. Events will still materialise even when transit planets are in challenging relative positions to natal significators, because the double transit theory measures activation rather than auspiciousness.

Practically, the astrologer examining timing should identify the relevant dasha-antardasha activation, then confirm whether transit Jupiter and Saturn are simultaneously aspecting or conjoining the relevant natal point. The closer both transiting planets are to the natal degree, the sharper the timing of the event.

---

ASHTAKAVARGA — BASICS AND INTERPRETATION

Ashtakavarga is a numerical system unique to Vedic astrology that assigns a score (0 to 8) to each sign based on the contributory benefic points cast by all seven planets and the lagna. The total benefic bindus in each sign indicate the relative strength of that sign as a transit zone. Higher bindus indicate more supportive transits; lower bindus indicate lean, challenging transits. The Sarvashtakavarga (combined score) ranges from 0 to 56 per sign; a score above 30 is considered strong and above 25 is average.

Ashtakavarga for Career (10th House)

The Sarvashtakavarga score in the 10th house indicates the overall strength of professional life and reputation. A 10th house score of 35 or above suggests a prominent and rewarding career with multiple periods of professional success. A score below 25 indicates career challenges, lack of recognition despite effort, or professional instability. The Ashtakavarga score of Saturn in the 10th house is especially important — Saturn being the natural karaka of career (by delay and discipline). A high Saturn bindu count in the 10th house natally, combined with Saturn transiting signs with high bindus in transit, indicates peak career periods. The 10th lord's own Ashtakavarga sheet reveals which signs it transits most productively — career breakthroughs consistently occur when the 10th lord transits signs in which it has high bindus. Additionally, when Saturn transits the 10th house in a sign with more than 4 bindus in the 10th house's Ashtakavarga, a significant career consolidation or recognition event is likely.

Ashtakavarga for Marriage (7th House)

The 7th house Ashtakavarga score reflects the overall strength and happiness of marriage and long-term partnerships. A high score (above 30) in the 7th house suggests multiple periods of partnership harmonisation and romantic fulfilment. Venus's Ashtakavarga contribution in the 7th house is the most important single indicator — Venus having 4 or more bindus in the 7th house in its own sheet supports romantic happiness and marital longevity. Timing of marriage events: Jupiter transiting a sign with high bindus in the 7th house, or transiting the 7th house itself with 5+ bindus, combined with the relevant dasha activation, is a classic timing marker for marriage. Saturn transiting the 7th house in a sign with low bindus can coincide with marital strain, separation discussions, or karmic relationship tests.

Ashtakavarga for Health (6th House)

The 6th house in Ashtakavarga reveals the overall resilience to disease and the ability to overcome adversarial circumstances. A high Sarvashtakavarga score in the 6th house (above 28) gives the native natural resistance to chronic illness and the capacity to defeat opponents and legal adversaries. A low score (below 22) suggests vulnerability to disease, recurring health challenges, and a tendency for adversarial situations to escalate beyond the native's control. Saturn's Ashtakavarga in the 6th house is particularly diagnostic: Saturn with 5+ bindus in the 6th house creates a configuration of extraordinary resilience, often enabling the native to defeat chronic conditions through disciplined treatment. Mars's bindus in the 6th house Ashtakavarga indicate the effectiveness of surgical interventions — high Mars bindus in the 6th support successful surgical outcomes. When a planet transits the 6th house in a sign with fewer than 2 bindus, health challenges specific to that planet's domains may materialise.
