---
source: BPHS
chapter: 23
language: en
---

The seventh house of the horoscope, known as Kalatra Bhava or the House of the Partner, governs marriage, romantic partnership, spouse, legal contracts, and all significant one-to-one relationships. It is the primary house consulted for questions of marriage timing, the character of the spouse, and the quality of committed partnership.

Venus placed in the seventh house of partnership indicates a charming, attractive partner with refined tastes and a harmonious marital bond. The native is blessed with a spouse who brings beauty, creativity, and social grace into the relationship. Romantic relationships are filled with warmth, mutual appreciation, and aesthetic sensibility. Venus here promises a partner who values harmony and takes pleasure in the refinements of life. The native's own romantic sensibility is heightened by this placement.

Jupiter in the seventh house indicates a wise, moral, and generous partner who brings growth and spiritual depth to the marriage. Such a partner elevates the native's life through broad-minded guidance and dharmic counsel. Jupiter in the seventh house is one of the most auspicious placements for marriage, indicating a noble, educated, and benevolent spouse who supports the native's development and prosperity over the course of the relationship.

Saturn occupying the seventh house can delay marriage or bring a partner who is older, more reserved, and who teaches through commitment and discipline. The relationship carries qualities of seriousness, duty, and responsibility. While early romantic life may be restricted or tested, enduring partnerships formed with maturity often bring stability and deep mutual respect born of shared effort and proved loyalty. Saturn in the seventh asks for patience before delivering lasting bonds.

Mars in the seventh house indicates passionate, energetic partnerships with potential for conflict and confrontation. The native benefits from a dynamic, assertive partner, but must consciously manage impulsiveness and competitive tendencies within the relationship. Mars here often produces a strong-willed spouse and a marriage characterised by both intensity and friction. The native must cultivate patience and compromise to achieve harmony.

When the seventh house lord is placed in its own sign or moolatrikona, the native enjoys stable, enduring partnerships built on mutual respect and shared values. The dignity of the seventh lord is one of the strongest indicators of a lasting and fulfilling marriage. The partner is likely to be of good character, steady in their affection, and supportive of the native's goals.

Venus exalted in Pisces indicates refined romantic sensibilities, exceptional charm, and a deep capacity for love and devotion. An exalted Venus promises an exceptionally charming and devoted partner, and the native's own capacity for romantic expression and appreciation of beauty reaches its highest potential. This is a deeply favourable placement for all matters of the heart.

The presence of one or more planets in the seventh house activates and energises the partnership sector, drawing the native's focus and vitality toward committed relationships and the qualities their partner embodies. An occupied seventh house rarely indicates an indifferent attitude toward marriage or partnership.
