---
source: BPHS
chapter: 35
language: en
---

Classical Vedic astrology describes numerous yogas, or planetary combinations, that arise from the positions of planets relative to each other and to key reference points in the birth chart. These yogas produce specific effects on personality, reputation, intelligence, wealth, and spiritual development, modifying and amplifying the basic chart indications in significant ways.

Gajakesari yoga arises when Jupiter occupies a kendra house — the first, fourth, seventh, or tenth — counted from the Moon. The name combines the elephant, symbol of wisdom and memory, with the lion, symbol of power and authority. This yoga bestows intelligence, eloquence, noble character, moral authority, and widespread recognition throughout the native's lifetime. Those born with Gajakesari yoga often rise to prominence in their professional field and are long remembered for their wisdom and contribution to society. The influence of this yoga is felt most strongly when both Jupiter and the Moon are well-placed by sign, free from malefic aspect, and occupy kendras from the ascendant as well. The yoga produces an individual of good reputation who inspires trust and admiration in others.

Kemadruma yoga is present when the Moon has no planets in its second or twelfth house counted from itself, and no planet is conjunct the Moon in the same house. This yoga indicates emotional isolation and a tendency toward self-reliance born of necessity. The native may feel a deep sense of solitude or emotional disconnection even amid outward success and social activity. Kemadruma yoga can be cancelled when the Moon occupies a kendra from the ascendant, when a planet aspects the Moon, or when the Moon is associated with the Sun. When not cancelled, this yoga calls the native toward inner development, spiritual practice, and the cultivation of equanimity in the face of emotional solitude.

Among the most celebrated combinations in Vedic astrology are the Raja yogas, formed by the connection of lords of trikona houses — the first, fifth, and ninth — with lords of kendra houses — the first, fourth, seventh, and tenth. Such yogas confer authority, leadership, material success, and public recognition proportional to the strength and dignity of the planets involved. The conjunction, mutual aspect, or exchange of these lords in favourable houses activates the full potential of Raja yoga.

The exaltation of benefic planets such as Jupiter, Venus, or the Moon creates powerful positive effects, amplifying natural qualities of wisdom, beauty, emotional stability, and prosperity. The exaltation of the Sun in Aries produces regal confidence, exceptional vitality, and an authoritative presence that commands respect. Exalted planets act as the highest expression of their natural significations, elevating the houses they occupy and lord over. Their influence on personality, career, and relationships is correspondingly magnified.

The careful study of yogas requires synthesis of the entire birth chart, as individual yogas interact with each other and are conditioned by the overall planetary configuration. A single yoga never narrates the complete story; it must always be read in the context of the ascendant, its lord, the disposition of other planets, and the active dasha period.
