---
source: BPHS
chapter: 24
language: en
---

The tenth house of the horoscope, known as Karma Bhava or the House of Action, governs career, profession, vocation, public status, and worldly recognition. It represents the highest point of material achievement and the manner in which the native engages with society through their work, leadership, and contribution.

The Sun placed in the tenth house of karma bhava confers prominence, authority, and recognition in professional life, often in government, administration, or leadership roles. The native becomes known in society, achieves considerable status, and is drawn to positions of command and public influence. Career prominence comes through the native's confident assertion of will and identity. Such individuals often rise to senior positions and are recognised for their capacity to lead and inspire.

Saturn in the tenth house denotes a career built through sustained effort, discipline, and perseverance. Success often comes later in life but endures over the long term, as Saturn rewards steady and methodical work with lasting achievement. Such natives may pursue careers in administration, law, engineering, construction, or any field requiring structural thinking and long-term commitment. The career may begin slowly but ultimately reaches a position of respect and authority.

Jupiter occupies the tenth house to bestow wisdom, ethical conduct, and a career in teaching, law, finance, or advisory roles. The native guides others with knowledge and virtue, earning a reputation for integrity and wise counsel. A career in education, judicial service, philosophy, or spiritual guidance is strongly favoured. Jupiter in the tenth house elevates the native's professional standing through moral authority rather than force.

Mars in the tenth house indicates a dynamic, action-oriented career involving leadership, engineering, the military, surgery, or competitive professional fields. The native possesses ambition, initiative, and the courage to take decisive professional action. Mars here produces commanders, entrepreneurs, surgeons, and pioneers who thrive in high-energy environments.

When the tenth house lord is placed in a kendra or angular house, it provides a strong structural foundation for the native's career and public standing. Professional advancement occurs steadily and the native builds a durable reputation. When the tenth lord occupies a trikona or trine, fortune and dharmic alignment support the professional endeavours, attracting luck and timely opportunity.

When the tenth house lord is exalted, the native achieves outstanding career success, exceptionally high professional status, and remarkable recognition in their chosen field. This is among the strongest indicators of career achievement in the entire horoscope, and the native may reach the apex of their profession. Conversely, when the tenth lord is debilitated, obstacles, delays, and underachievement characterise the professional life, and the native must apply conscious effort and remediation to overcome the structural weakness in their career sector.

The Lagna lord placed in the tenth house indicates that the native's core identity and personal ambition are intimately tied to career and social status. Such a native defines themselves largely through their professional role and public achievements, and the career becomes a central expression of the self.
