---
source: BPHS
chapter: 15
language: en
---

The first house of the horoscope, known as the Lagna or Ascendant, represents the physical self, personality, temperament, constitution, and the native's overall orientation toward life. Planets placed in the Lagna powerfully colour character and appearance, and their natural qualities become woven into the native's identity.

Sun in the Lagna confers a commanding presence, natural authority, and a strong radiant self-identity. The native possesses leadership qualities, vitality, and a desire to be recognised for their individual will. Such individuals gravitate toward positions of authority and earn respect through confidence and directness. The Sun in Lagna produces a person who identifies strongly with their own ego and creative power, seeking to shine in whatever sphere they inhabit. The self-expression is bold and the constitution is generally strong.

Moon in the Lagna gives a reflective, emotionally receptive temperament with strong intuition and changeable moods. The native is sensitive, adaptable, and deeply influenced by the emotional climate of their environment. A strong and well-placed Moon here indicates nurturing instincts and a close connection with family and community. The Moon's phases affect the native's constitution and psychological state from month to month, making consistency a practice rather than a given.

Jupiter placed in the Lagna indicates a wise, generous, and optimistic personality with a natural inclination toward learning, philosophy, and dharma. Such natives are broad-minded, good-humoured, and often serve as counsellors or teachers in their communities. Jupiter in the Lagna bestows a well-built physique, an expansive philosophical outlook, and a tendency toward spiritual inquiry and moral reasoning. The native attracts goodwill and is regarded as trustworthy and benevolent.

Saturn in the Lagna produces a disciplined, reserved, and patient nature. The native is serious, methodical, and may appear austere or older than their years. Saturn here introduces hardships in early life that build resilience and a deep work ethic. The native approaches life with caution and prefers structure over spontaneity. There is a quality of endurance and seriousness that others sometimes mistake for coldness, but which is in truth a form of steadiness and integrity.

Rahu in the Lagna creates an unconventional, ambitious personality with a tendency to challenge norms and pursue worldly desires intensely. Such natives are often driven by a restless hunger for experience and recognition, appearing magnetic or unusual to others. The ambitions of Rahu in the Lagna can lead to remarkable achievements when channelled with awareness.

When Saturn casts its third, seventh, or tenth house aspect upon the Lagna, it imparts discipline, restraint, and a serious hardworking quality to the personality even without direct placement. This drishti colours the native's outlook with Saturnine patience and a methodical approach to all endeavours.
