---
source: BPHS
chapter: 16
language: en
---

The second house of the horoscope governs accumulated wealth, speech, family life, early education, food, and the right eye. Planets occupying the second house strongly influence the native's financial fortunes and manner of speech.

Sun in the second house produces a person who earns through government service, authority, or personal enterprise. The native is proud in speech and may be direct or even harsh at times. Wealth fluctuates and may require sustained effort to accumulate. The father's financial status significantly influences early life.

Moon in the second house bestows wealth through trade, liquid assets, or dealings with the public. The native has a pleasant voice, a talent for persuasion, and may earn through professions involving communication or food. Wealth fluctuates with the Moon's phases but generally the native enjoys material comforts and family support.

Jupiter in the second house is highly favourable for wealth accumulation. The native earns through ethical means, often through teaching, finance, advisory roles, or family inheritance. Speech is eloquent, measured, and carries authority. This placement supports longevity of the family lineage and prosperity across generations.

Venus in the second house brings wealth through art, luxury goods, beauty industries, or partnerships. The native has a melodious voice, a love of beautiful speech, and earns from aesthetic pursuits. Family life is pleasant and the native enjoys fine food and material comforts.

Mars in the second house creates an ambitious earner who pursues wealth aggressively. Speech is direct, bold, and can tend toward argumentation. Income may come through engineering, surgery, the military, or real estate. Financial overconfidence may lead to losses if Mars is poorly aspected.

Mercury in the second house bestows excellent communication skills, facility with languages, and earnings through trade, writing, accounting, or intellectual work. The native is quick-witted, articulate, and may earn from multiple income sources simultaneously.

Saturn in the second house restricts early wealth and introduces frugality as a virtue. Income grows steadily through disciplined effort over time. Speech is measured and deliberate, sometimes perceived as cold or cautious. The native accumulates wealth late in life after persistent effort.

The third house governs siblings, courage, short journeys, communication, hands and arms, writing, and personal initiative. It represents the native's will to act independently and to take calculated risks.

Sun in the third house produces a courageous, enterprising individual with a competitive spirit. Relations with siblings may be mixed — respect is present but rivalry is also possible. The native takes initiative in all matters and may excel in journalism, media, or competitive fields.

Moon in the third house gives a restless, curious mind with a fondness for communication and travel. Relations with siblings are close and emotionally significant. The native adapts easily to changing circumstances and may pursue careers in writing, sales, or local travel-related fields.

Mars in the third house is considered strong here as it governs courage, siblings, and initiative. The native is bold, physically active, and may have a talent for sports, martial arts, or skilled trades involving the hands. Siblings are competitive but ultimately supportive. Initiative is strong and risk-taking is a consistent trait.

Jupiter in the third house bestows wisdom in communication and good fortune through short journeys and younger siblings. The native writes or speaks with philosophical depth. Initiative is tempered by careful consideration rather than impulsiveness.

Saturn in the third house introduces delays in communication projects and caution in taking initiative. Relations with siblings may be dutiful but emotionally distant. Over time the native develops exceptional endurance, patience, and skill through persistent effort. Long-term projects succeed through methodical application.

The fourth house represents the home, mother, land, vehicles, emotional security, early education, and inner happiness. It is the seat of comforts and the repository of emotional memories.

Moon in the fourth house is in its natural house of strength. The native enjoys a loving relationship with the mother, a nurturing home environment, and a deep emotional rootedness. Domestic life provides real contentment. The native may own property and have a strong attachment to place and heritage.

Venus in the fourth house is a highly auspicious placement for domestic happiness. The home is beautiful, harmonious, and comfortable. Relations with the mother are warm and loving. The native may possess vehicles and property, and enjoys a pleasant emotional life. Aesthetic sensibility finds expression in the home environment.

Mars in the fourth house can disturb domestic peace. There may be tension with the mother or in the home environment. The native may relocate frequently or have disputes over land and property. Temper may flare in domestic settings. However, when well-aspected, Mars here produces a native who actively creates and defends their home with great energy.

Jupiter in the fourth house brings wisdom, piety, and contentment to the domestic sphere. The native is blessed with a comfortable home, a learned and benevolent mother, and genuine inner happiness. Religious observance and study may take place in the home environment. Property ownership is supported.

Saturn in the fourth house introduces austerity and sometimes hardship in the domestic realm. The mother may be strict, emotionally unavailable, or absent. Comforts arrive late in life after early deprivation. The native may own property but struggle to feel emotionally settled. Over time, the home becomes a place of serious study and disciplined practice.

The fifth house governs intelligence, education, creativity, children, speculation, past life merit (purva punya), and capacity for devotion. It is the seat of wisdom earned in prior births and the creative expression of the present life.

Sun in the fifth house bestows strong intelligence, creative gifts, and a love of learning. The native may excel in education, performance, or political pursuits. Relations with children are proud and devoted. Speculative ventures may attract the native, with success depending on overall chart strength.

Moon in the fifth house gives a fertile imagination, emotional intelligence, and a genuine love of children. The native is creative, fond of the arts, and may have an interest in devotional practices. Memory is strong. Fluctuation in studies or children-related matters is possible.

Mercury in the fifth house is a powerful placement for intellectual pursuits. The native is highly analytical, quick to learn, and may excel in mathematics, writing, or philosophical discourse. Multiple interests are pursued simultaneously. Communication about creative and intellectual subjects flows naturally.

Jupiter in the fifth house bestows exceptional wisdom, a deep capacity for devotion, and blessings in the realm of children. The native is scholarly, righteous, and may become a teacher or spiritual guide. Past life merit manifests as good fortune in this life, particularly in education and speculative matters undertaken with ethical intent.

Ketu in the fifth house creates an intensely spiritual, introspective intelligence with possible past life expertise in occult, philosophical, or healing subjects. The native's mind naturally turns inward, and conventional approaches to education may feel constraining. Intuitive insight is strong. Children matters may bring unusual experiences or require special attention.

The sixth house governs enemies, disease, debts, daily work and service, obstacles, litigation, and the digestive system. Planets here influence the native's capacity to overcome adversity and to serve with discipline.

Sun in the sixth house produces a powerful ability to overcome enemies and illness. The native has strong competitive instincts and succeeds in adversarial or service-oriented professions such as medicine, law, military service, or administration. Vitality is generally strong and the native triumphs over obstacles through force of will.

Mars in the sixth house is considered strong and favourable here, as Mars governs competition, conflict, and service, all of which belong to the sixth house domain. The native is a fierce competitor, skilled in overcoming enemies and surmounting obstacles. Careers in medicine, surgery, athletics, military, law enforcement, or engineering are supported. This placement protects against serious illness and gives the endurance to prevail in difficult circumstances.

Saturn in the sixth house is a placement of endurance in service. The native serves with discipline, persistence, and methodical attention. Chronic health challenges related to bones, joints, or the nervous system are possible, but the native manages these through routine and self-discipline. Legal disputes tend to resolve slowly but eventually in the native's favour.

Mercury in the sixth house produces skill in analytical work, detailed administration, and service professions requiring precision. The native may face minor conflicts from colleagues but overcomes them through intelligence and adaptability. Health matters related to the nervous system or digestion require attention.
